
Part 1-Preliminary
1  Short title
		This Act may be cited as the Acts Interpretation Act 1901.
1A  Simplified outline
		The following is a simplified outline of this Act:
Overview
This Act is like a dictionary and manual to use when reading and interpreting Commonwealth Acts and instruments made under Commonwealth Acts.
The definitions and many of the interpretation rules are aimed at making Commonwealth legislation shorter, less complex and more consistent in operation.
A provision of this Act is subject to a contrary intention in other Commonwealth legislation.
Structure
Part 1 provides that this Act applies to all Acts. This Act also applies to legislative instruments and other instruments made under an Act (see subsection 13(1) of the Legislative Instruments Act 2003 and subsection 46(1) of this Act).
Part 2 contains definitions that apply across all Commonwealth legislation (for example, Australian citizen, business day, document and month).
Part 3 deals with the commencement of Commonwealth Acts. For example, section 4 allows certain powers to be exercised (like the making of appointments) between the enactment and commencement of an Act.
Part 4 deals with the amendment, repeal and expiry of Commonwealth legislation. For example, section 7 provides that the repeal of an Act does not affect any rights accrued under the Act, or any legal proceedings instituted, before the repeal.
Part 5 contains various rules for interpreting Commonwealth legislation, including:
	(a)	section 15A (about interpreting an Act subject to the Constitution); and
	(b)	section 15AA (which provides for interpreting an Act in a way that best achieves the purpose or object of the Act); and
	(c)	section 15AB (about using material that is not part of an Act (like explanatory memorandums and second reading speeches) in interpreting an Act); and
	(d)	sections 19 to 19C (which deal with references to Ministers, Departments and Secretaries of Departments and with administrative changes in the operation of the Commonwealth Government).
Part 6 deals with the service of documents on persons.
Part 7 contains rules about exercising powers and performing functions and duties under Commonwealth legislation, including:
	(a)	subsection 33(3) (which provides that a power to make an instrument includes the power to vary or revoke the instrument); and
	(b)	section 33A (about acting appointments); and
	(c)	sections 34AA, 34AB and 34A (about delegating powers, functions and duties).
Part 8 deals with the calculation of distance, time and age.
Part 9 deals with the citation of Acts.
Part 10 deals with non-legislative instruments. For example, it provides that this Act applies to those instruments and that expressions in those instruments have the same meaning as in the enabling legislation.
Part 11 contains a regulation-making power.
2  Application of Act
	(1)	This Act applies to all Acts (including this Act).
Note:	This Act also applies to legislative instruments and other instruments made under an Act: see subsection 13(1) of the Legislative Instruments Act 2003 and subsection 46(1) of this Act.
	(2)	However, the application of this Act or a provision of this Act to an Act or a provision of an Act is subject to a contrary intention.
2A  Binding the Crown
		This Act binds the Crown in each of its capacities.
Part 2-Definitions
  
2B  Definitions
		In any Act:
acting SES employee has the same meaning as in the Public Service Act 1999.
affidavit includes affirmation, declaration and promise.
appoint: see section 33AA.
APS employee has the same meaning as in the Public Service Act 1999.
Australia means the Commonwealth of Australia and, when used in a geographical sense, includes the Territory of Christmas Island and the Territory of Cocos (Keeling) Islands, but does not include any other external Territory.
Note:	See also section 15B.
Australian citizen has the same meaning as in the Australian Citizenship Act 2007.
Australian Privacy Principle has the same meaning as in the Privacy Act 1988.
Australian Standard: see section 2L.
business day means a day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a public holiday in the place concerned.
calendar month means one of the 12 months of the year.
calendar year means a period of 12 months starting on 1 January.
charitable has the meaning given by Part 2 of the Charities Act 2013.
charitable purpose has the meaning given by Part 3 of the Charities Act 2013.
charity has the meaning given by Part 2 of the Charities Act 2013.
commencement, in relation to an Act or a provision of an Act, means the time at which the Act or provision comes into operation.
Note:	See also section 3.
Commonwealth means the Commonwealth of Australia and, when used in a geographical sense, includes the Territory of Christmas Island and the Territory of Cocos (Keeling) Islands, but does not include any other external Territory.
Note:	See also section 15B.
Consolidated Revenue Fund means the Consolidated Revenue Fund referred to in section 81 of the Constitution.
Constitution means the Constitution of the Commonwealth.
contiguous zone has the same meaning as in the Seas and Submerged Lands Act 1973.
continental shelf has the same meaning as in the Seas and Submerged Lands Act 1973.
contravene includes fail to comply with.
court exercising federal jurisdiction means any court when exercising federal jurisdiction, and includes a federal court.
court of summary jurisdiction means any justice of the peace, or magistrate of a State or Territory, sitting as a court of summary jurisdiction.
de facto partner: see section 2D.
document means any record of information, and includes:
	(a)	anything on which there is writing; and
	(b)	anything on which there are marks, figures, symbols or perforations having a meaning for persons qualified to interpret them; and
	(c)	anything from which sounds, images or writings can be reproduced with or without the aid of anything else; and
	(d)	a map, plan, drawing or photograph.
estate includes any estate, interest, charge, right, title, claim demand, lien or encumbrance at law or in equity.
exclusive economic zone has the same meaning as in the Seas and Submerged Lands Act 1973.
Executive Council means the Federal Executive Council.
external Territory means a Territory, other than an internal Territory, where an Act makes provision for the government of the Territory as a Territory.
Note:	See also section 15B.
federal court means the High Court or any court created by the Parliament.
financial year means a period of 12 months starting on 1 July.
foreign country means any country (whether or not an independent sovereign state) outside Australia and the external Territories.
Gazette means the Commonwealth of Australia Gazette.
Government Printer includes any person printing for the Government of the Commonwealth.
Note:	See also section 17A.
Governor of a State: see section 16B.
Governor-General: see section 16A.
High Court means the High Court of Australia.
individual means a natural person.
insolvent under administration has the same meaning as in the Corporations Act 2001.
internal Territory means the Australian Capital Territory, the Northern Territory or the Jervis Bay Territory.
Jervis Bay Territory means the Territory referred to in the Jervis Bay Territory Acceptance Act 1915.
justice of the peace includes a justice of the peace for a State or part of a State or for a Territory.
land includes messuages, tenements and hereditaments, corporeal and incorporeal, of any tenure or description, whatever may be the estate or interest in them.
law of the Commonwealth: see section 2H.
Magistrate: see subsection 16C(2).
Minister or Minister of State means one of the Ministers of State for the Commonwealth.
Note:	See also section 19.
modifications, in relation to a law, includes additions, omissions and substitutions.
month: see section 2G.
Northern Territory means the Northern Territory of Australia.
oath includes affirmation, declaration and promise.
Parliament means the Parliament of the Commonwealth.
penalty unit, including in relation to a civil penalty provision, has the meaning given by section 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914.
person: see section 2C.
prescribed means prescribed by the Act or by regulations under the Act.
Proclamation means Proclamation by the Governor-General that is published in the Gazette or entered in the Federal Register of Legislative Instruments established under the Legislative Instruments Act 2003.
record includes information stored or recorded by means of a computer.
regulations means regulations under the Act.
rules of court: see section 2K.
seat of Government means the seat of Government of the Commonwealth.
SES employee has the same meaning as in the Public Service Act 1999.
Sovereign: see section 16.
Standards Australia means Standards Australia Limited (ACN 087 326 690).
State means a State of the Commonwealth.
statutory declaration means a declaration made because of any Act authorising a declaration to be made otherwise than in the course of a judicial proceeding.
Stipendiary Magistrate: see subsection 16C(1).
swear includes affirm, declare and promise.
territorial sea has the same meaning as in the Seas and Submerged Lands Act 1973.
Territory, Territory of the Commonwealth, Territory under the authority of the Commonwealth or Territory of Australia means a Territory referred to in section 122 of the Constitution.
United Kingdom means the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
writing includes any mode of representing or reproducing words, figures, drawings or symbols in a visible form.
2C  References to persons
	(1)	In any Act, expressions used to denote persons generally (such as "person", "party", "someone", "anyone", "no-one", "one", "another" and "whoever"), include a body politic or corporate as well as an individual.
	(2)	Express references in an Act to companies, corporations or bodies corporate do not imply that expressions in that Act, of the kind mentioned in subsection (1), do not include companies, corporations or bodies corporate.
2D  References to de facto partners
		For the purposes of a provision of an Act that is a provision in which de facto partner has the meaning given by this Act, a person is the de facto partner of another person (whether of the same sex or a different sex) if:
	(a)	the person is in a registered relationship with the other person under section 2E; or
	(b)	the person is in a de facto relationship with the other person under section 2F.
2E  Registered relationships
		For the purposes of paragraph 2D(a), a person is in a registered relationship with another person if the relationship between the persons is registered under a prescribed law of a State or Territory as a prescribed kind of relationship.
2F  De facto relationships
	(1)	For the purposes of paragraph 2D(b), a person is in a de facto relationship with another person if the persons:
	(a)	are not legally married to each other; and
	(b)	are not related by family (see subsection (6)); and
	(c)	have a relationship as a couple living together on a genuine domestic basis.
	(2)	In determining for the purposes of paragraph (1)(c) whether 2 persons have a relationship as a couple, all the circumstances of their relationship are to be taken into account, including any or all of the following circumstances:
	(a)	the duration of the relationship;
	(b)	the nature and extent of their common residence;
	(c)	whether a sexual relationship exists;
	(d)	the degree of financial dependence or interdependence, and any arrangements for financial support, between them;
	(e)	the ownership, use and acquisition of their property;
	(f)	the degree of mutual commitment to a shared life;
	(g)	the care and support of children;
	(h)	the reputation and public aspects of the relationship.
	(3)	No particular finding in relation to any circumstance mentioned in subsection (2) is necessary in determining whether 2 persons have a relationship as a couple for the purposes of paragraph (1)(c).
	(4)	For the purposes of paragraph (1)(c), the persons are taken to be living together on a genuine domestic basis if the persons are not living together on a genuine domestic basis only because of:
	(a)	a temporary absence from each other; or
	(b)	illness or infirmity of either or both of them.
	(5)	For the purposes of subsection (1), a de facto relationship can exist even if one of the persons is legally married to someone else or is in a registered relationship (within the meaning of section 2E) with someone else or is in another de facto relationship.
	(6)	For the purposes of paragraph (1)(b), 2 persons are related by family if:
	(a)	one is the child (including an adopted child) of the other; or
	(b)	one is another descendant of the other (even if the relationship between them is traced through an adoptive parent); or
	(c)	they have a parent in common (who may be an adoptive parent of either or both of them).
For this purpose, disregard whether an adoption is declared void or has ceased to have effect.
	(7)	For the purposes of subsection (6), adopted means adopted under the law of any place (whether in or out of Australia) relating to the adoption of children.
2G  Months
	(1)	In any Act, month means a period:
	(a)	starting at the start of any day of one of the calendar months; and
	(b)	ending:
	(i)	immediately before the start of the corresponding day of the next calendar month; or
	(ii)	if there is no such day-at the end of the next calendar month.
Example 1:	A month starting on 15 December in a year ends immediately before 15 January in the next year.
Example 2:	A month starting on 31 August in a year ends at the end of September in that year (because September is the calendar month coming after August and does not have 31 days).
	(2)	In any Act, a reference to a period of 2 or more months is a reference to a period:
	(a)	starting at the start of a day of one of the calendar months (the starting month); and
	(b)	ending:
	(i)	immediately before the start of the corresponding day of the calendar month that is that number of calendar months after the starting month; or
	(ii)	if there is no such day-at the end of the calendar month that is that number of calendar months after the starting month.
Example 1:	A reference to 6 months starting on 15 December in a year is a reference to a period starting on that day and ending immediately before 15 June in the next year.
Example 2:	A reference to 6 months starting on 31 October in a year is a reference to a period starting on that day and ending at the end of April in the next year (because April is the calendar month coming sixth after October and does not have 31 days).
2H  References to law of the Commonwealth
		In any Act, a reference to the law of the Commonwealth, or to a law of the Commonwealth, does not include, and is taken never to have included, a reference to a law in force in a Territory so far as the law is so in force because of an Act providing for the acceptance, administration or government of that Territory.
2J  Documents commencing proceedings
		A reference in a provision of an Act to any one or more of the following in connection with court proceedings:
	(a)	a summons;
	(b)	an information;
	(c)	a claim;
	(d)	a complaint;
	(e)	a declaration;
is taken to include a reference to any document through which proceedings may be instituted in a court.
Note:	An example of such a document is a court attendance notice under the Criminal Procedure Act 1986 of New South Wales.
2K  Rules of court
	(1)	In any Act, rules of court, in relation to any court, means rules made by the authority having for the time being power to make rules or orders regulating the practice and procedure of such court.
	(2)	The power of the authority to make rules of court includes a power to make rules of court for the purpose of any Act which directs or authorises anything to be done by rules of court.
2L  References to Australian Standards
		In any Act, a reference consisting of the words "Australian Standard" followed by the letters "AS" and a number is a reference to the standard so numbered that is published by, or on behalf of, Standards Australia.
Part 3-Commencement of Acts
  
3  When Acts come into operation
		If an Act or a provision of an Act is expressed to come into operation on a particular day (whether the expression "come into operation" or "commence" is used), it shall come into operation immediately on the expiration of the last preceding day.
3A  Commencement of Acts
	(1)	This section does not apply to an Act so far as it provides for its commencement.
	(2)	An Act (other than an Act to alter the Constitution) commences on the 28th day after the day on which that Act receives the Royal Assent.
	(3)	An Act to alter the Constitution commences on the day on which that Act receives the Royal Assent.
4  Exercise of powers between enactment and commencement of Act
Application of section
	(1)	This section applies if an Act is enacted and at a time (the start time) after its enactment the Act will confer power to make an appointment, or to make an instrument of a legislative or administrative character (including rules, regulations or by-laws), because:
	(a)	the Act will commence at the start time; or
	(b)	the Act will be amended at the start time by an Act that has been enacted and that commences at that time.
Exercise of power before start time
	(2)	The power may be exercised before the start time as if the relevant commencement had occurred.
	(3)	Anything may be done before the start time for the purpose of enabling the exercise of the power, or of bringing the appointment or instrument into effect, as if the relevant commencement had occurred.
	(4)	The exercise of a power under subsection (2) does not confer a power or right or impose an obligation on a person before the relevant commencement except so far as is necessary or convenient for the purpose of:
	(a)	bringing the appointment or instrument into effect; or
	(b)	bringing the Act conferring power into operation; or
	(c)	making the Act conferring power fully effective at or after the start time.
	(5)	An appointment, or a provision of an instrument, made under subsection (2) takes effect at the start time or a later time specified in the appointment or instrument.
One instrument may rely on subsection (2) and existing power
	(6)	To avoid doubt, a single instrument may be made before the start time partly under subsection (2) and partly under a power already conferred by an Act.
Extended application to provisions of an Act
	(7)	Subsections (1) to (6) also apply in relation to a provision of an Act in the same way as they apply in relation to an Act.
6  Evidence of date of assent
		The date appearing on the copy of an Act printed by the Government Printer, and purporting to be the date on which the Governor-General assented thereto, or made known the Sovereign's assent, shall be evidence that such date was the date on which the Governor-General so assented or made known the Sovereign's assent, and shall be judicially noticed.
Part 4-Amendment, repeal and expiry of Acts
  
7  Effect of repeal or amendment of Act
No revival of other Act or part
	(1)	The repeal of an Act, or of a part of an Act, that repealed an Act (the old Act) or part (the old part) of an Act does not revive the old Act or old part, unless express provision is made for the revival.
No effect on previous operation of Act or part
	(2)	If an Act, or an instrument under an Act, repeals or amends an Act (the affected Act) or a part of an Act, then the repeal or amendment does not:
	(a)	revive anything not in force or existing at the time at which the repeal or amendment takes effect; or
	(b)	affect the previous operation of the affected Act or part (including any amendment made by the affected Act or part), or anything duly done or suffered under the affected Act or part; or
	(c)	affect any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under the affected Act or part; or
	(d)	affect any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed against the affected Act or part; or
	(e)	affect any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment.
Any such investigation, legal proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced, and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be imposed, as if the affected Act or part had not been repealed or amended.
Note:	The Act that makes the repeal or amendment, or provides for the instrument to make the repeal or amendment, may be different from, or the same as, the affected Act or the Act containing the part repealed or amended.
Interpretation
	(3)	A reference in subsection (1) or (2) to the repeal or amendment of an Act or of a part of an Act includes a reference to:
	(a)	a repeal or amendment effected by implication; and
	(b)	the expiry, lapsing or cessation of effect of the Act or part; and
	(c)	the abrogation or limitation of the effect of the Act or part; and
	(d)	the exclusion of the application of the Act or part to any person, subject-matter or circumstance.
	(4)	A reference in this section to a part of an Act includes a reference to any provision of, or words, figures, drawings or symbols in, an Act.
10  References to amended or re-enacted Acts
		Where an Act contains a reference to a short title that is or was provided by law for the citation of another Act as originally enacted, or of another Act as amended, then:
	(a)	the reference shall be construed as a reference to that other Act as originally enacted and as amended from time to time; and
	(b)	where that other Act has been repealed and re-enacted, with or without modifications, the reference shall be construed as including a reference to the re-enacted Act as originally enacted and as amended from time to time; and
	(c)	if a provision of the other Act is repealed and re-enacted (including where the other Act is repealed and re-enacted), with or without modifications, a reference to the repealed provision extends to any corresponding re-enacted provision.
10A  References to amended or re-enacted laws of States and Territories
		Where an Act contains a reference to a short title or other citation that is or was provided by the law of a State or Territory for the citation of a law of that State or Territory as originally enacted or made, or as amended, then:
	(a)	the reference shall be construed as a reference to that law as originally enacted or made and as amended from time to time; and
	(b)	where that law has been repealed and re-enacted or re-made, with or without modifications, the reference shall be construed as including a reference to the re-enacted or re-made law as originally enacted or made and as amended from time to time; and
	(c)	if a provision of that law is repealed and re-enacted or re-made (including where that law is repealed and re-enacted or re-made), with or without modifications, a reference to the repealed provision extends to any corresponding re-enacted or re-made provision.
11  Acts may be altered etc. in same session
		An Act may be altered, amended or repealed in the same session of Parliament in which it was passed.
11A  Inserting definitions into provisions or inserting items into lists or tables
Inserting definitions
	(1)	If an amending Act inserts a definition in a provision of the Act being amended, but does not specify the position in that provision where it is to be inserted, it is to be inserted in the appropriate alphabetical position, determined on a letter-by-letter basis.
Inserting items into lists or tables
	(2)	If:
	(a)	an amending Act inserts an item into a list or table in a provision of the Act being amended, but does not specify the position in the list or table where the item is to be inserted; and
	(b)	immediately before the insertion, the list or table was arranged alphabetically;
the item is inserted in the appropriate alphabetical position, determined on a letter-by-letter basis.
11B  Amending Act to be construed with amended Act
	(1)	Every Act amending another Act must be construed with the other Act as part of the other Act.
	(2)	If:
	(a)	an Act (the amending Act) amends another Act (the principal Act); and
	(b)	a provision (the non-amending provision) of the amending Act does not amend the principal Act, but relates to an amendment of the principal Act made by another provision of the amending Act; and
	(c)	a term is used in the non-amending provision that has a particular meaning in the principal Act or in a provision of the principal Act amended or included by the amending Act;
then the term has that meaning in the non-amending provision.
Note:	Subsection (2) covers, for example, application, transitional and saving items in a Schedule to an amending Act that relate to amendments of a principal Act made by other items in the Schedule.
	(3)	Subsection (2) does not limit subsection (1).
Part 5-General interpretation rules
  
12  Every section a substantive enactment
		Every section of an Act shall have effect as a substantive enactment without introductory words.
13  Material that is part of an Act
	(1)	All material from and including the first section of an Act to the end of:
	(a)	if there are no Schedules to the Act-the last section of the Act; or
	(b)	if there are one or more Schedules to the Act-the last Schedule to the Act;
is part of the Act.
	(2)	The following are also part of an Act:
	(a)	the long title of the Act;
	(b)	any Preamble to the Act;
	(c)	the enacting words for the Act;
	(d)	any heading to a Chapter, Part, Division or Subdivision appearing before the first section of the Act.
15A  Construction of Acts to be subject to Constitution
		Every Act shall be read and construed subject to the Constitution, and so as not to exceed the legislative power of the Commonwealth, to the intent that where any enactment thereof would, but for this section, have been construed as being in excess of that power, it shall nevertheless be a valid enactment to the extent to which it is not in excess of that power.
15AA  Interpretation best achieving Act's purpose or object
		In interpreting a provision of an Act, the interpretation that would best achieve the purpose or object of the Act (whether or not that purpose or object is expressly stated in the Act) is to be preferred to each other interpretation.
15AB  Use of extrinsic material in the interpretation of an Act
	(1)	Subject to subsection (3), in the interpretation of a provision of an Act, if any material not forming part of the Act is capable of assisting in the ascertainment of the meaning of the provision, consideration may be given to that material:
	(a)	to confirm that the meaning of the provision is the ordinary meaning conveyed by the text of the provision taking into account its context in the Act and the purpose or object underlying the Act; or
	(b)	to determine the meaning of the provision when:
	(i)	the provision is ambiguous or obscure; or
	(ii)	the ordinary meaning conveyed by the text of the provision taking into account its context in the Act and the purpose or object underlying the Act leads to a result that is manifestly absurd or is unreasonable.
	(2)	Without limiting the generality of subsection (1), the material that may be considered in accordance with that subsection in the interpretation of a provision of an Act includes:
	(a)	all matters not forming part of the Act that are set out in the document containing the text of the Act as printed by the Government Printer;
	(b)	any relevant report of a Royal Commission, Law Reform Commission, committee of inquiry or other similar body that was laid before either House of the Parliament before the time when the provision was enacted;
	(c)	any relevant report of a committee of the Parliament or of either House of the Parliament that was made to the Parliament or that House of the Parliament before the time when the provision was enacted;
	(d)	any treaty or other international agreement that is referred to in the Act;
	(e)	any explanatory memorandum relating to the Bill containing the provision, or any other relevant document, that was laid before, or furnished to the members of, either House of the Parliament by a Minister before the time when the provision was enacted;
	(f)	the speech made to a House of the Parliament by a Minister on the occasion of the moving by that Minister of a motion that the Bill containing the provision be read a second time in that House;
	(g)	any document (whether or not a document to which a preceding paragraph applies) that is declared by the Act to be a relevant document for the purposes of this section; and
	(h)	any relevant material in the Journals of the Senate, in the Votes and Proceedings of the House of Representatives or in any official record of debates in the Parliament or either House of the Parliament.
	(3)	In determining whether consideration should be given to any material in accordance with subsection (1), or in considering the weight to be given to any such material, regard shall be had, in addition to any other relevant matters, to:
	(a)	the desirability of persons being able to rely on the ordinary meaning conveyed by the text of the provision taking into account its context in the Act and the purpose or object underlying the Act; and
	(b)	the need to avoid prolonging legal or other proceedings without compensating advantage.
15AC  Changes to style not to affect meaning
		Where:
	(a)	an Act has expressed an idea in a particular form of words; and
	(b)	a later Act appears to have expressed the same idea in a different form of words for the purpose of using a clearer style;
the ideas shall not be taken to be different merely because different forms of words were used.
15AD  Examples
		If an Act includes an example of the operation of a provision:
	(a)	the example is not exhaustive; and
	(b)	the example may extend the operation of the provision.
15AE  Legislative instruments etc.
Instruments that are described as legislative instruments
	(1)	If a provision of a law requires or permits an instrument that is described as a legislative instrument to be made, then an instrument made under that provision:
	(a)	must be in writing; and
	(b)	is a legislative instrument for the purposes of the Legislative Instruments Act 2003.
	(2)	However, the fact that a provision of a law requires or permits an instrument that is described as a legislative instrument to be made does not imply that an instrument made under that provision is or must be of legislative character (within the ordinary meaning of that term).
Instruments that are described as not being legislative instruments
	(3)	If a provision of a law requires or permits an instrument that is described as not being a legislative instrument to be made, then an instrument made under that provision is not a legislative instrument for the purposes of the Legislative Instruments Act 2003.
	(4)	However, the fact that a provision of a law requires or permits an instrument that is described as not being a legislative instrument to be made does not imply that an instrument made under that provision is not, or must not be, of legislative character (within the ordinary meaning of that term).
No inference to be drawn from express statements
	(5)	In determining whether an instrument made under a provision of a law is a legislative instrument for the purposes of the Legislative Instruments Act 2003, no inference may be drawn from the fact that an instrument made under another provision of that or any other law is described as a legislative instrument, or as not being a legislative instrument.
Example:	In determining whether a Ministerial direction under a provision is a legislative instrument, no inference may be drawn from the fact that a Ministerial direction under another provision is described as being a legislative instrument.
Definition
	(6)	In this section:
law means an Act or regulations or any other instrument made under an Act.
15B  Application of Acts in coastal sea
Coastal sea of Australia
	(1)	An Act is taken to have effect in, and in relation to, the coastal sea of Australia as if that coastal sea were part of Australia.
	(2)	A reference in an Act to Australia, or to the Commonwealth, is taken to include a reference to the coastal sea of Australia.
Coastal sea of external Territory
	(3)	An Act that is in force in an external Territory is taken to have effect in, and in relation to, the coastal sea of the Territory as if that coastal sea were part of the Territory.
	(3A)	A reference in an Act to all or any of the external Territories (whether or not one or more particular Territories are referred to) is taken to include a reference to the coastal sea of any Territory to which the reference relates.
Definition
	(4)	In this section, coastal sea:
	(a)	in relation to Australia, means:
	(i)	the territorial sea of Australia; and
	(ii)	the sea on the landward side of the territorial sea of Australia and not within the limits of a State or internal Territory;
		and includes the airspace over, and the sea-bed and subsoil beneath, any such sea; and
	(b)	in relation to an external Territory, means:
	(i)	the territorial sea adjacent to the Territory; and
	(ii)	the sea on the landward side of the territorial sea adjacent to the Territory and not within the limits of the Territory;
		and includes the airspace over, and the sea-bed and subsoil beneath, any such sea.
15C  Jurisdiction of courts
		Where a provision of an Act, whether expressly or by implication, authorizes a civil or criminal proceeding to be instituted in a particular court in relation to a matter:
	(a)	that provision shall be deemed to vest that court with jurisdiction in that matter;
	(b)	the jurisdiction so vested is not limited by any limits to which any other jurisdiction of the court may be subject; and
	(c)	in the case of a court of a Territory, that provision shall be construed as providing that the jurisdiction is vested so far only as the Constitution permits.
16  References to the Sovereign
		In any Act references to the Sovereign reigning at the time of the passing of such Act, or to the Crown, shall be construed as references to the Sovereign for the time being.